We're back in business. Okay. So we were talking
about just your general view on war prior to the
war. Okay. After I got into it and saw what it was, I
guess as far as killing, it came more of second
nature to me. I just did it, and I didn't think about
it. After basically, you know, you're sitting
there watching the guy beside you get blown away
or, you know, there's bombs hitting all around
your mortars or whatever, you're sitting there
shooting or you're keeping your head down or
whatever just to stay alive. So you're fighting
for your own life. And you really don't think about
what you're fighting for other than your own
personal salvation to stay alive. You... Get very
close to God if you're a religious person. You pray
a lot. You know, you promise everybody in the world
everything if you can come out of it alive type
thing. Yeah, you get in a situation like that, it's
hard to really express your feelings until you've
gotten there. But once you're there and you're in
it, you know, you really wake up to really what the
world's all about. And you appreciate God. things
in life that you probably would have never even
thought were there or realized like running water
or flush toilets or whatever you want to say I mean
you know that sort of thing but the war part of it as
far as killing I feel you know they taught me how to
kill that was one thing I learned and to me it's
second nature not that I'm going to go out and kill
anybody tomorrow or nothing but I could probably
see somebody killed and or kill somebody and I
wouldn't think twice about it. I'm very numb to
that. I have no feelings that way. I'm very numb.
And I had to blame the Vietnam War on that. If I was
called upon to go fight again, which I probably
never will be, I probably would do it without even
thinking. You know, not that I'm quote 100%
patriot or anything like that, but it's just that
maybe that's in me. I don't know. It's been
described by... Well, like, for example, Philip
Caputo with the First Marines, he said even though
he was an anti-war protester, after he got out of
Vietnam, he said there was still that attraction
in him about Vietnam, and he could not deny that for
what it was worth. There was something about the
camaraderie that none of us who have never been to
war could ever realize. You try to explain it to
your family or wife or friends or anybody,
especially if a relative dies or something. I have
had several close relatives die and friends, and I
show no emotion to it. Do you feel any emotion? I
really don't.
Maybe someday it will hit me. I don't know. But at
this stage of the game, since I've been back, I've
been very numb to death. And, you know, I have been
in incidents where, with my job especially here,
these guys got killed in that car accident, and I
found them in the water dead. And, you know, I
personally found them and, you know, helped pull
them out of the water and everything, and it didn't
affect me at all, although there was people all
around just screaming and crying and yelling and
everything because these guys were dead. But to
me, it didn't affect me whatsoever. I'd seen so
much death and blood that it didn't bother me. And
so, in a way, I guess that is what war means to me. You
know, I have no feelings. I'm very numb. Do you?
Exactly. Any more? Do you feel like you have any
illusions? No, no. I had, initially, when I came
back, it was really tough. I was very jumpy and, you
know, people couldn't come near me while I was
sleeping. I've slept very, very lightly. I had a
real hard time adjusting initially the first year
or so. I was back, it was tough, and I was very
violent.
Basically, I would, you know, if somebody upset
me, I would just go into a rage sometimes. And
you've probably experienced that when you were
working with me. I, since, I guess the last two
years, have really mellowed out from that
standpoint. But it took me quite a few years to
really get over that. Do loud noises make you
jumpy? Very jumpy, yes. Even to this day, if I hear a
gunshot, my first reaction is to get down. I mean,
very, very quick. It's ingrained in you, isn't it?
Yes. And I initially did not hunt for several years
after I got back, but I did get back into hunting
again in the woods and shooting again, deer
hunting, duck hunting, whatever that way. And I
found it very, very second nature. to go back out
into the woods again and hunt. And I was able,
actually I've shot more deer probably since then
because maybe of my training in the war, you know,
that way. It's just nothing to go out and pop a deer
and, you know, be able to see it and hit it and know
what's there, you know, that sort of thing. See
through the camouflage. See through what's
there, exactly. Do you catch yourself looking for
tripwires whenever you go to the jungle? Well, I
look for anything. And not necessarily
tripwires, but there's things that I'll be
walking along and I sit there and say, stop, or
something. There's a guy with me. What the hell are
you doing? And I said, see that over there? There's
an animal in there or something. And you can just
see things. And the guy says, what are you talking
about? And I said, right there. See that? Yeah, you
see different footprints, and you can tell,
especially where the deer, when you're deer
hunting, I guess it's more prevalent than
anything else. You can see where they've been and
track them and follow them and see where the
animals were. But the actual sense that's there, I
don't know what you call it, seven cents there
again, but I really have got that still. I think in
the woods I could be very, very pleased to go back
out in the jungle and live if I had to. Thanks.
That's pretty interesting. You're not the only
one that's stated that. While we're on the subject
of your homecoming, what was your homecoming
like? Did the military ship you back and then just
dump you in Houston, Texas and say you're home? Was
there any adjustment period? No, there was no
adjustment period. I had a very unique
homecoming. My unit did stand down the 101st. I'm
sorry, not the 101st, the 1st Cav. The 101st stood
down, too, but I came home with the first cab. It was
the second of the fifth, which basically was just
our particular unit. So you did come back with the
unit? Well, not actually. I came home, and they
stood down two weeks later. So I flew back from
Vietnam to Travis Air Force Base, went through
debriefing at Travis Air Force Base, stayed there
for almost two weeks. And they basically every day
would question me and debrief me and check me and
test my urine and all this sort of thing, make sure I
was drug free and that I wasn't a sicko and I wasn't
going to go blow people away and all this sort of
thing. So there was about a two-week debriefing
period where I could not see anyone or talk to
anyone. I couldn't even call my family. And I was in
the States, but I couldn't call or talk to them for
two weeks.
you know, was kind of getting back familiar with
the world, they called it. I came back to the world.
And I was still in the military at the time, and I
supposedly had two more months to go before I was
out. So what they decided to do with me would be to go
ahead and give me an early out so I didn't have to do
any service because I wasn't going to re-up. And
they tried their best in that two-week period to
get me to sign up for more time, but I didn't do it.
And... So they went ahead and gave me an early out at
that time, and the unit stood down at Fort Hood,
Texas. So I came home to Pasadena, and when the unit
came home to Fort Hood, I went back up to Fort Hood,
and they actually had a major ceremony with the
band and the whole nine yards for the colonels and
the captains and everybody, and they went through
the whole deal and had a big cake and party on the
lawn. for the unit standing down and coming home
from Vietnam. And the colonels and everybody that
I'd worked with was there. So it was pretty
emotional because they all left like two weeks
after I did and came home. So I came home basically,
got my wife and immediately drove to Fort Hood,
Texas and met them there. And so I got to see the guys
and everybody I was with and everything. And the
majority of them were still in the service and
stationed at Fort Hood at that time. Did y'all
party like hell that night? Yeah, we had a pretty
good time. We really enjoyed it. Actually, I was
with my wife again at the same time with the guys I'd
been with for six months, too. It was getting to
know the stateside plus my wife, that sort of
thing. It was pretty emotional all the way around.
They got to meet her. Of course, you always talk
about your family and stuff with your buddies,
that sort of thing. Then we went back home and I
tried not to go back to work, but I couldn't stay
around the house. I had to go and do, so I went back to
work pretty quick. Was it easy to find a job? Well, I
already had the job. I was very fortunate there.
When I left and was drafted, I was working for
Exxon, and Exxon basically paid my wife
dependency pay the whole time I was in NOM, and so
when I came back, I was guaranteed a job, so I walked
right back into the job at Exxon, and I basically
got my seniority back. My job was right there
waiting for me and everything, so it was no problem
to walk right back into a job at all. It was hard to
get used to the routine again, but I was able to go
back into it. Did you ever receive any abuse for
being a back? No abuse, but I did expect to be...
Down upon maybe? No, not really. I expected to be
treated more as a hero. because I came back alive
and well, but I was never really treated one way or
the other. It was no, it was like, oh, you went to
NAMM? Big deal, you know. And I said, Jesus, I went
over there and fought for the country and almost
died and, you know, all this, all that. I come back
and it's no big deal, you know. And, you know,
that's really the way it was. I got no special
treatment, no preference treatment, you know, No
real thank you or nothing, you know, from anybody.
And, of course, my military benefits as far as my
schooling and housing and stuff like that were all
there, my VA benefits. But that's really the only
thing that really came out of the whole deal, you
know, after the fact, so to speak. Do you think if
you didn't have this, I don't mean to use the word
party, but this party, so to say, this
get-together with the First Cap back at Fort Hood.
Mm-hmm. Do you think if you didn't at least have
that bit of a welcome back committee, do you think
it would have been a hell of a lot worse for you
personally? Probably so. Emotionally? Probably
so. And, you know, of course, my family treated me
like I was a hero. I mean, that was, I can say, but no
one outside my family ever did. And... You know,
I'm sure all the veterans feel the same way. This is
pretty much a standard deal across the board. They
got just slided by everybody. And, you know, just
until the recent time, you know, the veterans
hadn't even hardly been acknowledged to be in
there. And, you know, just in the recent, you know,
years, past few years, if, you know, anybody, you
know, the Congress or, you know, the President or
anybody really acknowledged that, There was a
war, or there was veterans, or people did die, you
know, this sort of thing. So that, I think, if
anything, is very, very hard to swallow because
thousands and thousands of guys and girls lost
their lives in Nam. And, you know, it's something
that should be remembered and, you know,
respected for those that did fight and did come
back and did die. And, you know, just until here
recently, that hasn't happened. What do you think
about when you got back? Were there any anti-war
protests? No, I didn't see anything like that.
That really never bothered me. I saw a lot of it
before I went. What about afterwards?
Afterwards, never really saw anything that much
directly at all. I saw a lot of it on TV. What did you
think about it when you saw it on TV? It didn't
really bother me because I had a choice to make,
too. I could have tried to dodge a draft. I could
have gone to Canada. I could have. When AWOL, I had
choices too. I could have stayed in school and not
got drafted. I mean, you know, it's a situation. I
guess I chose my own destiny in a way. Going back to
my basic training, my AIT, the guys that came out of
AIT, there was only about six of us that ended up
going to NAM out of about 50 of us. Everybody else
went to Germany. So, you know, it's a weird
situation. There's still two or three guys that I
went in with that were local here in the Houston
area. One guy lives in Alvin. I see him every once in
a while. He went to Germany for the whole two-year
stint. He had a house in Germany where he was living
off base. He had a blast over there. He bought some
German cars and Mercedes and stuff like that. The
guy had a blast while he was there. Here I was in
Vietnam getting shot at. I felt that I accepted
what they gave me and I did it the way I wanted to do
it. I had a choice. And I chose it and did the best I
could with it. So the protest and stuff and the
anti-war stuff, you know, that's an individual
type thing. I have no problem with that at all. I've
heard this from some veterans, one particular,
the helicopter pilot that I talked to you earlier
about. What he stated when he got back, one, he had
no readjustment period whatsoever. Right.
Personally, this can be two-part. The first
question, do you think the military should give a
readjustment period to vets with what you've
experienced? Yes, definitely. And then the other
thing he said, he too expressed that he had
absolutely zero problems with the anti-war
protesters. The people that he had a problem with
were those who did not acknowledge Vietnam. Who
didn't even care. Exactly. That's basically what
I was saying. What hurt me and upset me more were the
people that didn't even care, you know. And there
was a lot of them. And they just seemed to have no
feelings one way or another. You say, hey, I went to
Nam, you know, and they say, oh, really? Big deal.
You know, I would rather a guy say, oh, man, that was
terrible. You shouldn't have gone or, you know,
Vietnam was a waste of time or a baby killer or
anything, you know, that sort of thing, rather
than say, I don't care. you know, at least the
protesters had a voice, they had an opinion, you
know, they used it, you know, so, you know, from
that standpoint, the ones that I agree 100% with
what the, you know, the pilot said, you know, the
ones that didn't acknowledge it at all, to me, are
the worst, you know, because it was a situation
where, granted, they weren't, our country wasn't
on the line, you know, they weren't invading
America or United States or anything like that,
but American lives and money was being lost and
thrown away basically on a daily basis You know and
that affects everybody You will for many many many
years I
want to get back to Vietnam and with the units the
one last question that I had I was sort of
sidetracked from but I wanted you to elaborate a
little bit more on the racism and Was it mainly
whites versus black or blacks versus everybody?
It was pretty much the blacks did their own thing.
And they really, I would say, you know, probably
I'd say 80% of the soldiers were black. Okay. And so
leaders were mostly sergeants were black. Very
few officers were black because you had to be
educated to be an officer. And not that blacks are
not educated by any means. The majority of them
just were not college people. And the college
blacks were smart enough not to get drafted or go in
the Army. So, you know, if they were smart enough to
be smart, they didn't go in the service. So very few
blacks were actually officers. so you had a direct
conflict of race right there and the blacks had
their own clicks and their own things and you know
they get together and you know you tell them to go
out on a mission or something and they just look at
you and say you know where you can jump you know that
sort of thing and just say i'm not going to do it and
you know and here's a lieutenant cherry
lieutenant trying to tell this black guy that
stands three foot tall on him to go out and run this
ambush you know and It just didn't happen, so there
was a lot of that. And, I mean, you really would be
fear of them. I mean, you would fear your life from
your fellow soldier, you know, buddy. And if you
didn't get in good with them, you know, you never
knew whether they were going to shoot you in the
back or frag you or what. And, I mean, we'd get in a
firefight, and, you know, if you pissed one of them
off, I mean, you better be looking over your
shoulder to make sure he wasn't behind you because
you might get shot. And it did happen. I mean, you
know, guys would get shot all the time in a
firefight, you know. And it was the racism. It was
more racism than anything else. You know, if you
didn't work with them, you know, if you were
anti-black or anti-Hispanic or had any views or
opinions about their racism, you know, generally
you wouldn't last. You had to go with the flow and,
you know, be one of the guys and this sort of thing.
And there again... The longer you were around
them, the longer you were in country, the better
you had a chance of living, not only from your
people, but from the other ones too, you know. And
the blacks were the most prominent. Of course, the
Hispanic people had that type of thing. And there
was, I guess there was a few of the actual
Vietnamese or chinks or whatever you want to call
them that were there in the service too with us that
worked with us. We called them, what did we call
those guys? I can't even remember the name of them,
but they were like the Vietnamese scouts guys that
worked with us, you know, local villager type
thing. But they were actually Army. I mean, I don't
know how they, you know, they weren't Arvin. They
were our guys. They were basically employed by the
U.S. government as scouts, kind of like Kit Carson
and Tonto or whatever, you know, that way. So, you
know, from that standpoint. But, you know, we
would. And some of the times we'd go out, we'd
actually have, they called them Kit Carson
Scouts. That was the name. They called them Kit
Carson Scouts. They would go out with us and work
with us and stuff like that. But the blacks were the
biggest racial thing. And they had their cliques
and their things. And, you know, they had their
prostitute rings they ran. They had black market
food and drugs and liquor. You know, liquor was
very prominent. And, you know, you get it for
almost nothing. But, I mean, yeah. We, I remember
one time, we wanted some beer in the field. I'll
never forget this. We were in the middle of
nowhere. I mean, there was no fire bases around,
nothing. And we had this one black sergeant that
was, he was really a cool guy. And he called back in
and he says, my men need some beer. And the supply
sergeant at the fire base says, you know, they got
on the radio and back and forth, back and forth. And
it wasn't two hours later, here comes a chopper
with a pallet full of beer. I mean, it was a whole
pallet of cases of beer. And we had a whole company
of guys out there, so there was quite a few guys. And
they set this pallet of hot beer down, and they set
it down and left. I mean, they didn't hang around at
all. And we all went out there and packed up as much
beer as we could possibly put on our bodies and
carried it with us. So we had beer out there, and the
jungle was black labeled, too. I'll never forget
it. It's the worst tasting beer, but it was beer.
And we would take it in the mountains, and the
streams were real cool. And we'd take and put it in
the stream and try to cool it down a little bit and,
you know, then drink it. But I'll never forget
that. I mean, you know, those guys, they could work
deals on stuff. And, you know, if we needed a
particular, you know, weapon or something like
that out there, you know, a lot of times, you know,
Especially when we were in the small groups of
special force type thing, you know, when the first
calve, we would use AKs and shoot those because if
we were out there and had an ambush and we started
shooting M16s, the enemy would know we would be
there. Whereas if we were shooting AKs, it would
sound just like them, so they really wouldn't know
any different. So we would always get extra rounds
and stuff like that from those guys. You know, we
could always pick up stuff from the black market
anywhere to get the AKs and stuff like that, we were
able to pick up enemy weapons and extra rounds. Did
you have to go through black guys to get the AKs?
Usually, yeah. Wow, I didn't realize that they had
controlled so much of the black market. They did.
There again, it wasn't everywhere, but if you
wanted something, you knew you could go get it if
you had the money to pay for it. Well, on the black
market, were there also Claymore mines? Yeah, you
could get anything just about. on the black
market. You know, those guys, BC's could, yeah,
they could buy it too, I'm sure. I mean, those guys,
they had everything we had. So, from that
standpoint, you know, we never knew who the real
enemy was, so to speak, you know. Right, exactly.
So, you know, it's a situation, you know, they
always, you know, they had a good supply of stuff as
we did, and that goes back to the Arvins, where we
supplied them in that fire base, and A week later,
they overran the fire base and took everything we
gave them. So we knew the enemy had all the mines and
cannons and bullets and everything. I mean, here
we were getting shot at us with our own stuff
because the Arvins let them have it. Well, that
leads to some general questions. And do you think
that the U.S. could have ever won that war? I really
do. The way they fought it, or maybe if they... the
thing that it would have taken it probably would
have killed more civilians than it did but it would
have killed less people overall and it would have
taken a lot less years but they should have gone in
with massive strikes and massive overruns and
just basically just marched through the whole
country and took it away from them and they could
have done that because they knew where the enemy
was But the enemy would set up in villages. They'd
set up in near villages. And if they went in with an
airstrike, they always took the chance of killing
the villagers and killing the friendlies, and
they didn't want to do that. So then they did the
hit-and-miss type thing, and it took years and
years and years, and nobody ever won. Or at least we
sure didn't. But I personally feel if they would
have gone in with massive strikes... They could
have overtaken it, and it would have cost some
lives, but it would have saved more than it cost.
And that's just from what I saw from the
intelligence part of it. Of course, my first six
months in country, I knew nothing about this
because I was just an infantry soldier doing what I
was told. But after I got into the intelligence
part and saw that they actually knew where the
enemy was, they knew how much enemy was out there,
they knew where they were going and what they were
doing, all they had to do was go in there and wipe
them out. And, yeah, that's what, you know, our
intelligence was far superior to theirs.
Speaking of intelligence, supposedly from
around 65 to 68, the military intelligence put the
enemy's strength at less than 300,000, while the
CIA at that time put it at twice that. I think the
300,000 is a very realistic number. Wow. Because
there wasn't that many there. The numbers weren't
there. What was the enemy's strength in 70? Well,
I'm going to say probably it was closer down to the
100,000 mark, somewhere in that range. The
numbers just weren't there at all. They had pulled
back into Cambodia. They were back into North
Vietnam. There was not that many troops in South
Vietnam at the time. And the ones that were there
were just in small areas and small companies and
stuff. So it wasn't a major masses of companies and
battalions and stuff like that. So yeah, it was
spread out over the whole country, but it wasn't
the numbers in the area from that standpoint. Do
you think we belong to Vietnam to begin with? Do you
think there was an actual cause that was worth
fighting for? I think so. And I think the people in
the upper government, of course, anything you can
do to promote freedom, democracy, whatever, for
anybody, to give them a chance to stand on their own
is worth a cause. The loss of lives and the loss of
money, equipment, everything, that's hard to
justify that. I mean, there again, the way it was
gone about was probably wrong. I don't think there
will ever be another conflict like that because
they learned from it. But you look at, like, France
and Germany nowadays and what went through World
War I and World War II. And Korea. Korea still is
having major conflicts, but they do have a free
government. And so, I mean, they had those going
on, so they said, why not Vietnam, too? Give them a
chance. So I think the idea and the concept was
good. It just was not properly carried out. What
was your concept at the Vietnam government? What
did you know about the... Not a whole lot. I didn't
really get any of the major cities or major
government whatsoever, you know, because we were
almost all the way out. What little reading I did do
about it, you know, They basically wanted stuff,
but their economy was so poor and so, you know, I
don't know, diluted, whatever the proper term is,
that it could not properly be carried out. And the
rich had rich and the poor were poor, but there was
no in-between. And so, therefore, the economy
part of it was very, very, you know, There was 99%
poor people and 1% rich people type thing. And they
needed a major turnaround in their economy. And I
guess the poor just didn't care. I mean, they had
their little village and their little rice paddy
and did their farming, and they could care less
about the rest of the world. And here comes these
guys, and they're shooting everybody up. You
know, what the hell are you doing in my village in
the middle of nowhere? They could care less. So,
you know, the city's... Saigon, you know, the
major cities, they really needed to be, you know,
saved, so to speak. But the villagers, they were
perfectly happy. They could care less. And
they're the ones that really suffered more in the
cities because the cities were pretty secure. So,
you know, it's really a weird thing. It's kind of a,
you know, catch-22 type thing. You damn if you do
and you damn if you don't type deal. What do you
think the military... or we as Americans have
learned anything? I think so. Do you think the
military has learned? Well, the Goddard Granada
incident, for example, just recently. They went
in full bore, came in with a lot of force, took the
island, secured it. Bam, they're there. If they
would have done that in Vietnam, it wouldn't have
went on forever. From day one. Day one. So, I mean,
military training... needs to be updated, which
it probably has been since then. And I think they
spent a lot more money on the military since then.
At the same time, they learned from their
mistakes. They know what they need to do. And the
president obviously has spent lots and lots and
lots of money trying to keep it up. So I think
because of that, they will not make the same
mistake of going in in a fashion of not overrunning
and taking, and they're not going to take anything
off anybody anymore. And I think they took too much
off the North Vietnamese, if you know what I mean.
They just sit back and were passive rather than
active. And I think you'll see if there is another
war ever, it'll be a very active war. It'll be a
short run, bam, bam, it'll be over type thing. Oh,
what are your general views about Vietnamese
before and after it? Before, I had no view at all
because I really didn't know any. I personally, at
this time, don't.
I don't know. I still don't like them because, you
know, this is just a general type thing. I don't
know any personally, although when they first
started filtering in to here, you know,
especially in the fishing villages and stuff like
that and shrimping and stuff, I really had a real
bad taste in my mouth for them. Not that I wanted to
go kill any of them or anything like that, but I
didn't think they belonged here. But at the same
time, you think we didn't belong over there
either. So if they're willing to work and have a
living and support themselves, I really can't
argue with it. But I felt our government gave them
too much.
Their subsidies and stuff like that, they brought
them here, they put them in business, they paid
them to work. You know, they supported them, and I
think we subsidized them way, way too far. And, I
mean, there's a lot of... You think we subsidized
them too far in Vietnam, maybe, too? Possibly.
Okay. Very possibly. There's a lot of Vietnamese
that are better off than Americans because of the
government. If the government would subsidize
some of these guys out here, the farmers and stuff
like that, they'd be back on their feet, too. So,
you know, it's kind of a weird situation. So I've
kind of got a bitter taste... form in all honesty
not that I know any of them personally or anything
personal grudges or anything like that but I just
you see one and all you think about is war and you
know so from that standpoint it's really tough to
like them did you ever consider them a second class
citizen when you were in Vietnam no not at all ever
look down on them no no I never that never even
mattered I mean they were You know, they're human
beings. They're the same level. Everybody's
human. You know, there's no upper or lower class.
There was richer and poorer, but nobody was second
class. You know, everybody was equal. Even though
they didn't have the modern facilities we have.
They were nice. Some of them, you know, that we did
get to know and meet were just super people. I mean,
you know, especially in the outer line villages in
the middle of nowhere. I mean, you walk up on, you
know, a village and come in there and, You know,
they'd greet you and they'd feed you and they'd be
nice and helpful and friendly and, you know,
number one GI, you know, this sort of thing. And,
you know, you were the greatest person in the
world. And, you know, they'd mama sign, you know,
papa sign, you know, here, you want some food, you
know, this sort of thing. And the super people, you
know, in all honesty. But they didn't want to be
bothered. They were happy with their lives. And
you can't blame them, you know. And at the same
time, they would take anything you'd give them,
too. They wanted chocolate or cigarettes or
whatever. Gum. Gum. You could always win their
ways with them. And of course, the GIs, their
number one concern, a lot of them, was
prostitution. They'd go in the villages and rape,
pillage, and plunder. And of course, that left a
bad taste in the villagers' eyes. Do you think that
turned more villages to the VC and to the NBA?
Somewhat, yeah. But, you know, it was a situation
that if the girls were paid, they liked that
because they had the money. Right. As far as the
raping and the pillaging? If they were actually
raped and pillaged and plundered, that turned
them against them really bad. And I didn't see that
much of it, but it did happen. And there was one
village we went into, and some black guys got this
one girl, and, you know, they went in and raped her.
There was about six guys, and they just took turns
on her. And, you know... Did the officers try and
stop it? Nah. Didn't even try to do anything about
it at all. Did they not try and stop it due to their
fear of the blacks? I really don't know. I don't
think... Do you think the officers should have
tried to stop it? It's hard to say. I don't think
they could have. If they tried to stop it, they
probably would have got shot. You know, it's one of
those things. You just didn't interfere with what
those guys wanted to do. I mean, you could go in
there and try, but... The guy that should have
stopped it would have been the sergeant rather
than the officer. Sergeants usually, you know,
they quote NCO, had better repertoire with the
general consensus of the military rather than the
officers. So, you know, if a lieutenant says,
sergeant, go stop those guys, then sergeant could
have gone in there and said, okay, come on, break it
up, you know, this sort of thing. But generally,
nothing really happened or something like that.
Everybody just kind of turned their back and
didn't see nothing or know nothing. Is there
anything you'd like to discuss I haven't asked
about? No, not really. I think you probably
covered it pretty well. I think if I had to do it all
over again, I'd do it again. No real regrets? No
real regrets. I feel that the age that I went in, I
grew up and matured a lot.
Therefore, At the same time, I was very physically
capable of doing what I did at that age, too. If I had
not been married, I don't know if I would have
wanted to come back as much as I did. I think being
married and having a family to come back to, not
only kids but a wife, really gave me something to
look forward to. And, you know, I got letters all
the time. They were always late, but I was always
getting letters. I actually had voice tapes that I
could talk on. When I'd go back to the fire base rear
areas, we could make connections to the Mars
station, the ham radio, and we could call home. I
did that a few times. So there was always the
contact with the world and what was happening back
in the world, so to speak. So it gave me something to
look forward to and want to come home and be alive.
But you're always alone, no matter what. This
leads to something. Many, not many, but well,
quite a few soldiers and officers and Americans
went native. Right. Did you ever consider that?
No, not really. Do you think you would have if you
didn't have a family? Very possible, very
possible. Okay. I mean, I can see, especially the
blacks, there again, I hate to go back to them as
much, but if they had nothing to go back to, had no
family, these guys were number one with the
Vietnamese. I mean, they were the top banana. So
they'd just say, hey, man, I'm going AWOL. I'm
staying in this village, and I can be the king in
this village. You know, I got all these girls
running around. I can do what I want with them, and I
can run this village. And they were number one.
They all looked up to number one GI, you know. So
these black guys, I mean, they just flat
disappear. And they'd stay in the villages, and
we'd never see them again. So there again, going
back to the era of, lasting question is there still
Americans in Vietnam? Yes, I'm sure there are. And
yes, they probably don't ever want to be found
either. They're probably happy as they can be over
there. They're not necessarily prisoners of war,
are they? No, not at all. Any other subjects like
that that I haven't covered, like post-Vietnam?
Well, you know, I think they ought to let the dead
dog lay, so to speak. I don't see any reason going
back over there and creating any more diggings up
or bringing back the bodies. I don't see that. I
think people are there, they're buried, they're
dead, let it lay. Now, I know families still want to
know where their kids are. I can understand that,
but they need to accept after so many years that
they're dead and they're gone. If they wanted to be
found or come back, they would have an opportunity
to do that. If they are still there alive, they
don't want to be found. They don't want to come back
because they haven't made any effort to come back.
So, you know, it's to the point now they just need to
drop it and let it go. But there's no doubt in my
mind. America needs to drop it to an extent? Well,
at this stage of the game, unless they want to go
back in there and start another war, I think it's
time just to pull out and forget about it. Several
of the vets that have spoken to our class mentioned
they want to go back very badly, and they plan on
going back. Do you ever want to go back? If I had an
opportunity, I would go back, yes. Okay. The
country was absolutely gorgeous. The beaches
were beautiful. The mountains and the trees and
the tea trees and stuff were just gorgeous. You
know, from that standpoint, I would say, yes, I
would like to go back, just to say I was here and see
it again type thing. The temples, the Buddhas, and
stuff like that were gorgeous. You know, the
country had a lot of beauty to it, despite the war.
And if you could see the forest for the trees, it was
a very, very, very nice and beautiful place. As far
as there ever being a peaceful country, it's hard
to really say what that's going to come out. Well,
Steve, I think that concludes the interview,
unless you can think of something else. I really
can't. I enjoyed talking with you. All right. Much
appreciated. Thank you.